>> Jason Pamental: So the notion of
progressive enhancement is creating a good
baseline experience for
any device, any user, any browser.
Everything else is an enhancement.
So the core experience is the HTML
document, that's really the basis.
So no styles whatsoever, that's the core.
Is it marked up semantically correctly?
So, do you have things
in a sensible order?
If you were to turn off the stylesheet and
load it on your phone, that's kind
of the litmus test right there.
If you can read the page and you can
get the content, and you can understand
the hierarchy of headings to give you an
idea of what you should be looking at and
what's more important than something else,
that's the basis.
That's the baseline, right there.
So, notice I said that it's
the HTML without anything else.
So, where does that leave things
that are entirely driven and
delivered by JavaScript?
Nowhere.
And again, I'm not trying to dig on
JavaScript at all here, especially
not in Mark's house cuz I think he'd get
pretty upset with me, but it is important.
gov.uk, about 1% of the users don't
get JavaScript, they don't know why.
Maybe 0.3% have actively turned it off,
the rest of them?
Somewhere along the line
the delivery failed.
So if the gov.uk site required that
the JavaScript be present in order
to function, they would not be serving
literally millions of people a day.
I mean, it's a small percentage
of a really, really big number,
the people that go to the gov.uk site,
it's still a very large number of users.
So the whole premise of progressive
enhancement is that you're delivering
something that will still function,
everything else is an enhancement.
So CSS is an enhancement to make
the layout better, start to add more
definition and hierarchy and structure
to the way things layout on the page.
The fonts are another enhancement.
So that, the CSS,
should be there to style things and
create greater levels of
more intentional hierarchy.
But then the font itself
coming in is another
enhancement that will add
a little bit more tone of voice,
a little bit more brand recognition,
a little bit more emotional appeal.
So, what we want to make sure
when we are adding in our fonts,
notice the first line is
just linking to the CSS.
So that could be linking
out to Google Web Fonts,
it could be linking to Typekit, it could
be linking to fonts.com, doesn't matter.
First thing is you're
linking to a style sheet.
It's not dependent upon JavaScript.
The stuff that comes after
is another enhancement.
So, in this case, we're going to be
using Bram Stein's Font Face Observer,
which is a really great JavaScript library
that manages the loading process for us.
But it's all based on, first, you load
it with CSS, that's the first link.
And then JavaScript will handle
that process asynchronously,
if JavaScript is working.
So that's the interesting
little layer on top of that.
And looking down at what's
happening in those first few lines
of JavaScript, first,
we've called for the CSS.
And then as it starts to get in here,
we're going to be adding and
removing some classes that will
allow our CSS to tie into whether or
not those web fonts have loaded.
And that's using the font loading API,
that's at the browser level, but
it's also using session storage.
So there's a weird little
thing that Chrome does.
Even if a font is in cache,
it's probably still going to repaint
the screen one page to the next.
This completely avoids that.
So, it's one simple little thing that
gets rid of this really annoying bug,
where even after a subsequent
page loads the content comes in,
then it redraws the whole screen in
order to flip it over to the web fonts.
For whatever reason, instead of having
it go look at the browser cache,
using session storage is faster.
So, you don't see all of the code here,
but what it's doing is it's going through,
and we're constructing a promise
that will list each of the different
fonts that are being loaded, and
it will check if they have been loaded,
it'll set that session storage variable,
and it just works every time.
So it really dramatically speeds up
the shift from content loading and
content now in the web font itself.
In some cases it becomes
totally imperceptible.
Again, this is the important part here.
We're backwards compatible and
we are future friendly
by using that link to the CSS, and
then adding everything else beyond that.
There are two things that you have
to remember when you link to CSS,
it's a blocking request.
When you link to JavaScript,
unless you do something specifically,
that is likewise a blocking request.
So in the life cycle of that page,
the HTML is downloaded, then it starts to
parse through the DOM and it looks for
external assets that it needs to go get.
It's gonna find the CSS,
you want that CSS to come in.
You want it to process all of that CSS
before it starts rendering the rest of
the page, and
there's a few good reasons for that.
But JavaScript, in most cases, if it is
enhancing what's going on on the page,
it's okay to either have some things
load asynchronously or deferred.
Depends on the order in which
you need them to process.
So I'm not gonna get too deeply into that,
but you have those two main choices when
you're adding JavaScript to a page to
decide, is it okay if this
is an isolated thing?
And it just goes off and
does its thing and then it starts to work.
Or, is it a dependency?
I need to have jQuery
load before this plugin.
You can defer them both, and
it starts dealing with them
after it has drawn the page,
then it will go get the JavaScript.